Add ASP.NET distributed tracing example (#33387)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/distributed-tracing-collection-walkthroughs.md

## Collect traces using OpenTelemetry

[OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) is a vendor-neutral open-source project supported by the
[Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/) that aims to standardize generating and collecting telemetry for

> cloud-native software. In these examples, you will collect and display distributed trace information on the console though

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cloud-native software. In these examples, you'll collect and display distributed trace information on the console, though
```

OpenTelemetry can be configured to send it elsewhere. For more information, see the
[OpenTelemetry getting started guide](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet/blob/main/docs/trace/getting-started/README.md).

> ### ASP.NET Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ASP.NET example
```

#### Prerequisites

- [.NET Core 7.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet) or a later version

#### Create an example application

> First, create a new ASP.NET webapp to use as the demo application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a new ASP.NET web app to use as the demo application.
```

```dotnetcli
dotnet new webapp
```

> This app can now run and display a web page, but no distributed tracing information is being collected yet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This app displays a web page, but no distributed tracing information is collected yet
```

if we browse the web page.

> #### Configuring collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure collection
```

> To use OpenTelemetry we need to add references to several NuGet packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use OpenTelemetry, you need to add references to several NuGet packages.
```

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package OpenTelemetry --version 1.4.0-rc1
dotnet add package OpenTelemetry.Exporter.Console --version 1.4.0-rc1
dotnet add package OpenTelemetry.Extensions.Hosting --version 1.4.0-rc1
dotnet add package OpenTelemetry.Instrumentation.AspNetCore --version 1.0.0-rc9.10
```

> [!NOTE]
> At the time of writing, the 1.4.0 Release Candidate 1 build was the latest version of OpenTelemetry available. Once a final version
> is available, use that instead.

> Next modify the source code of Program.cs so it looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, modify the source code in *Program.cs* so it looks like this:
```

```csharp
using OpenTelemetry;
using OpenTelemetry.Trace;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

// Add services to the container.
builder.Services.AddRazorPages();
builder.Services.AddOpenTelemetry()
    .WithTracing(builder =>
    {
        builder.AddAspNetCoreInstrumentation();
        builder.AddConsoleExporter();
    }).StartWithHost();

var app = builder.Build();

// Configure the HTTP request pipeline.
if (!app.Environment.IsDevelopment())
{
    app.UseExceptionHandler("/Error");
    // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
    app.UseHsts();
}

app.UseHttpsRedirection();
app.UseStaticFiles();

app.UseRouting();

app.UseAuthorization();

app.MapRazorPages();

app.Run();
```

> Run the app and use a web browser to browse to the web page being hosted. Now that we enabled OpenTelemetry distributed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the app and use a web browser to browse to the web page being hosted. Now that you enabled OpenTelemetry distributed
```

> tracing you should see information about the browser web requests printed to the console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tracing, you should see information about the browser web requests printed to the console:
```

```
Activity.TraceId:            9c4519ce65a667280daedb3808d376f0
Activity.SpanId:             727c6a8a6cff664f
Activity.TraceFlags:         Recorded
Activity.ActivitySourceName: Microsoft.AspNetCore
Activity.DisplayName:        /
Activity.Kind:               Server
Activity.StartTime:          2023-01-08T01:56:05.4529879Z
Activity.Duration:           00:00:00.1048255
Activity.Tags:
    net.host.name: localhost
    net.host.port: 5163
    http.method: GET
    http.scheme: http
    http.target: /
    http.url: http://localhost:5163/
    http.flavor: 1.1
    http.user_agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/108.0.0.0 Safari/537.36 Edg/108.0.1462.76
    http.status_code: 200
Resource associated with Activity:
    service.name: unknown_service:demo
```

> All of the OpenTelemetry configuration is occuring in the new source lines that start with `builder.Services.AddOpenTelemetry()`. We used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the OpenTelemetry configuration occurs in the new source lines that start with `builder.Services.AddOpenTelemetry()`. You used
```

`.WithTracing(...)` to enable distributed tracing. `AddAspNetCoreInstrumentation()` enabled OpenTelemetry to collect all the

> distributed trace Activities that are produced by the ASP.NET Core web server and `AddConsoleExporter()` instructs OpenTelemetry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distributed trace Activities that are produced by the ASP.NET Core web server, and `AddConsoleExporter()` instructs OpenTelemetry
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
distributed trace Activities that are produced by the ASP.NET Core web server. `AddConsoleExporter()` instructs OpenTelemetry
```

> to send that information to the console. For a less trivial app you might want to add more instrumentation libraries to also collect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to send that information to the console. For a less trivial app, you might add more instrumentation libraries to also collect
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to send that information to the console. For a less trivial app, you could add more instrumentation libraries to also collect
```

> tracing for database queries or out-bound http requests. You would also replace the console exporter with an exporter for Jaeger, Zipken, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tracing for database queries or outbound HTTP requests. You'd also replace the console exporter with an exporter for Jaeger, Zipken, or
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tracing for database queries or outbound HTTP requests. You could also replace the console exporter with an exporter for Jaeger, Zipken, or
```

> some other monitoring service you have chosen to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
another monitoring service you've chosen to use.
```

> ### Console App Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Console app example
```

#### Prerequisites

- [.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet) or a later version

#### Create an example application

> Before any distributed trace telemetry can be collected, we need to produce it. Often this instrumentation might be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before any distributed trace telemetry can be collected, you need to produce it. Often this instrumentation is
```

Example work done
```

> #### Configuring collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure collection
```
